[Music]
I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
Friars with Renewal and this is the
rosary in Year podcast where through
prayer and meditation the rosary brings
us deeper into relationship with Jesus
and Mary and becomes a source of grace
for the whole world. The rosary in a
year is brought to you by Ascension.
This is day 142. To download the prayer
plan for rosary in a year, visit
ascensionpress.com/rosary in a year or
text riy to
33777. You'll get an outline of how
we're going to pray each month. It's a
great way to track your progress. The
best place to listen the podcast is in
the Ascension app. There are special
features built just for this podcast and
also recordings of the full rosary with
myself and other friars. No matter what
app you're listening in, remember to tap
follow or subscribe for your daily
notifications.
Today we will be meditating upon and
praying with the fourth sorrowful
mystery, the carrying of the cross with
help from a painting by Peter Brahl
entitled the procession to
Calvary. Now a brief introduction into
our artist and our
artwork. His name is Peter Brahl the
Elder born around the year 1525 to 1530.
He died in the year
1569 and he lived in Antworp and
Brussels.
This painting was done in the year
1564 and its style is the style of the
northern renaissance which was a period
of cultural and artistic flourishing in
Europe from the mid 15th century to the
16th century and it was a time of
renewed interest in classical learning,
humanism and individualism.
Now a
description of our
painting. A vista of rocky hills is
densely populated with clusters of
people who are all
busy. There are groups walking and
fighting and in wrapped
discussion. The scene is
filled with soldiers on horseback,
children, animals, wagons, thieves, and
people waving flags.
A group highlighted the front gathers
around a mourning woman, the blessed
mother, who is leaning over in sorrow as
she clasps her
hands, wearing what appears to be a
habit in a
veil. Around her, a young man, St. John,
reaches out to comfort her. And a young
woman, St. Mary Magdalene, kneels
concerned at her side. and another
buries her head in
weeping. Black birds dot the sky and an
animal skull is perched on the
hillside. And now on to our our
reflection. I think certainly a clear
characteristic of Brol's painting.
Rahul, I believe, is the correct
pronunciation. I'm asking you YouTube
for help with some of these names.
Trying not to embarrass myself and
frustrate you art historians out there.
So a key characteristic of Brahol's
painting here that we have the
procession to Calvary is the time period
it's set in right the clothing the
windmill the details the wagon they all
place Jesus carrying the cross in Brah's
own time and I think a second detail of
note to me as I look at this is the
sheer quantity of soldiers right in
reality these are Roman soldiers but in
the painting these are soldiers who are
wearing wearing hats and red jackets
proper to soldiers of the artist's own
time. And what these two details make me
think of like immediately is the way of
the cross that my own community does
every good Friday. My own community
referring to my religious order, the
Franciscan friars of the renewal. And
every good Friday, so a large number of
friars, there might be 50, 60, 70
friars, and a large number of religious
sisters, maybe 20 or 30 of them, and
another hundred or so lay people. We all
join together at a friy in
Harlem. And then we
process led by a large cross which the
friars take turns carrying through the
streets of Harlem into the South Bronx
to our friy in the South Bronx with the
help of a large contingent of NYPD
officers. And the officers they escort
us and they guide traffic as we make our
about two-mile sort of modern-day way of
the cross to commemorate and to pray on
Good
Friday. And as we process, our group
prays the stations of the cross and we
pray the rosary and we pray the divine
mercy chaplet. And as we're going and as
we're praying, uh, some members of our
group talk to people along the way and
they pray with and they hand out
religious cards or rosaries to, you
know, it really is like the hundreds,
maybe even more than that, people that
we encounter as we make our way through
these busy New York streets. And it is
it's always interesting to note the wide
variety of
responses. There's a lot of people with
great faith and they come out and they
just say that they love Jesus and thank
you Jesus and they shout it unabashedly.
Some of them like this year even like
coming to tears as this just evokes
their love of Jesus and what he did for
them. Many folks these days like don't
really engage the meaning of what we're
doing. They don't really ask any
questions of it. They simply document
it, right, as they pull out their phones
and and take a
video. Some do ask questions. Some offer
challenges, particularly those who are
not Catholic. And then some just kind of
shout insults for a variety of reasons.
Some just frustrated because we're
holding up
traffic. But the people who we pass,
they typically, you know, as they're on
the sidewalk or on the corner seeing us
go, they only encounter our public
devotion for maybe a minute or two at
the most.
But the outsiders who will those who
aren't part of you know the friars
sisters the lay people here of of
devotion who are with us for the
entirety of the walk however are our
police
escorts and we've been doing this for
like I don't know 20 years now and the
NYPD officers who are with us they
always have a very wide variety of
responses from you know like
professionally just doing their jobs to
actually praying with us right some get
it. Some receive the gift being offered.
Some don't. Some remain distant and
aloof, kind of making small talk with
one another, sort of pretending like
what's happening next to them isn't
happening at all, distancing themselves
from
it. Some don't really show any signs of
how it's impacting them, but you can
tell like they're taking it in, thinking
about what it means, wrestling with the
questions it asks.
again some particularly hopefully moved
by our own like kindness towards them
and gratitude towards them and and the
sincerity of our devotion and our even
like our our obedience to them as needs
be like they get drawn in even to the
point of towards the end you see some of
them themselves carrying rosaries that
we gave them like praying along with us
like some of them do in fact like
receive the gift being
offered and this all now brings me back
to our painting and what it reminds us
about the passion of our
Lord throughout his
passion, right? From his arrest to his
trial to his scourging to his crowning
of thorns to hear the carrying of the
cross to Calvary and finally his
crucifixion. And there were Roman
guards. There was a Roman guard
witnesses.
And what I'm going to ask you to do is
to imagine
yourself in the place of a Roman
guard. Like someone who's maybe only
just heard some stories about Jesus,
isn't familiar with prophecies about the
Messiah, isn't familiar with Jewish
devotion, never met this man or anybody
in his group, but grew up with a very
radically different
worldview. We've heard the story of the
passion of Jesus, the crucifixion of
Jesus so many times. Perhaps we've
prayed the stations of the cross or the
fourth sorrowful mystery so many times
that we just get used to
it. And my hope today, like my
invitation today is that by putting
yourself in the place of the Roman
soldiers who journey with Jesus in his
passion, you can try with Mary's help to
reflect upon it all and to see it all as
if it's the very first
time. Again, if you didn't already know
the end of the story, if you didn't
already know who Jesus was, if you never
heard Jesus
preached, as you're taking this all in,
in some ways, a scene that you've
seen many times unfold with different
people, but here happening in a unique
way, in a different way,
particularly the response of the
condemned man, the devotion of his
mother. Like, what do you experience?
What do you
think? Are you sort of hardening your
heart in shame? Are you
disinterested? Or would you, like the
centurion in Matthew
27:54,
like be a witness of all that unfolds
and be brought to faith, saying,
"Truly, this was the Son of God.
And now with Mary, let us pray. In the
name of the Father and of the Son and of
the Holy Spirit. Amen. Our Father, who
art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy
kingdom come, thy will be done on earth
as it is in heaven. Give us this day our
daily bread, and forgive us our
trespasses, as we forgive those who
trespass against us, and lead us not
into temptation, but deliver us from
evil.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of
grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners now
and at the hour of our death. Amen. Hail
Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with
thee. Blessed art thou among women, and
blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us
sinners, now and at the hour of our
death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace,
the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou
among women, and blessed is the fruit of
thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of
God, pray for us sinners, now and at the
hour of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full
of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death. Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is
with thee. Blessed art thou among women,
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of
grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us
sinners, now and at the hour of our
death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace,
the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou
among women, and blessed is the fruit of
thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of
God, pray for us sinners, now and at the
hour of our death. Amen. Glory be to the
Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Spirit. As it was in the beginning, is
now and ever shall be, world without
end. Amen. In the name of the Father and
of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.
All right. Thanks so much for joining me
and praying with me again today. I look
forward to continuing this journey with
you again tomorrow. All right, Poco Poco
friends. God bless you.